## 一、英语面试

### (一)自我介绍

1.Good Morning, my dear professors.

2.It is a fine day today, and I am glad to meet you here.

3.Last year, I took part in the postgraduate examination, and now, I would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to be here, although I feel some nervous now, because this is my first time to have such an interview.

4.First of all, please allow me to introduce myself to you.

5.My name is Jiangman, twenty-one years old, I will soon graduate from Shan Dong Agriculture University in July, and now, I am trying my best for obtaining a key to Ocean University of China.

6.Generally speaking, I am a hard-working student, because I will try my best to achieve my goal no matter how difficult it is.

7.I have got Single Scholarship and Second prize of Shan Dong Mathematical Competition in college. 

8.And when I was a sophomore, I found computer network very interesting, so I spent a lot of time on it, and got a first in Computer Network.

9.When I was learning network, I found that the security is the most important topic of it. 

10.Researchers from all over the world have been working hard to ensure the security of the network for years.

11.And in China, for example, Professor Wang Xiao Yun has cracked the Message Digest Five, her achievement has set an example to me.

12.Besides, there are also many great companies that changed the world like Google and Tencent, 

and I believe that one day I can achieve that, too. 

13.The reason why I choose to apply for my master' s degree is that, I find what I have learned is far than enough to achieve my dreams. 

14.So, I choose the major in order to broad my view in the security of the network, and enhance my research ability. 

15.I will do my best to join the new group and be good at postgraduate study. 

16.Finally, besides what I have introduced myself above, I have to admit that my hearing is not very good, if you could speak a little louder, I would be very grateful.

17.Please give me the chance, thank you.



### (二)爱好

1.I have a lot of interests that include reading, writing, swimming and so on. 

2.I enjoy writing the most, because I can create the world what I like by writing.

3.And I often write compositions to improve my written ability, although I know that, my compositions are not good enough, I will keep practicing. 

4.Besides, I also like swimming, which is an effective way I think to improve my body health.

5.During the days preparing for the first examination, I insist on swimming in the gym every week, and just owning to this, I could concentrate on my study and succeeded in the end.



### (三)家乡

1.I come from Tai an, a city stands at the foot of Mountain Tai.

2.My hometown’s name is derived from Mount Tai and implies that “The country is prosperous and the people live in peace”.

3.Mount Tai, a typical representative of the Chinese famous traditional mountains.

4.And it is also a mountain with a long history and a special historic status.

5.I love it very much, and you are welcome any time.



### (四)本科学校

1.I am very glad to introduce my major in the university.

2.My major is Internet of Things Engineering in Shan Dong Agriculture University. 

3.It has a great relationship with computer science. 

4.Their relationship can be shown with an example: Just like a river, computer science, which often designs new algorithms, is at the head of the river.

5.And my major, which lays more stress on practical use, seems to be at the end of it.

6.The reason why I choose to apply for my master' s degree is that, I find what I have learned is far than enough to achieve my dreams: Working hard to ensure the security of the network.



### (五)操作系统

1.Operating System is a computer program that manages and controls the hardware and software resources of a computer.

2.It is the most basic system software that runs directly on the “bare machine”.

3.Any other software must be supported by the operating system to run.

4.First, it is the interface between the user and the computer’s hardware system.

5.Second, it is the manager of the resources of a computer system.

6.Third, it implements the abstraction of the resources of a computer system.

7.That is my understanding, thank you.



### (六)目标院校

1.When I was learning in the university, I found that the network security is the topic that attracts me most. 

2.I would like to work hard to ensure the security of the network, and I know that Ocean University of China has the College of National Secrecy.

3.It has a strong faculty, and I believe that I can certainly improve my ability here.

4.Besides, Qingdao is also the seaside city I have been looking forward to.

5.The red roofs, green trees and blue sea form a bright and colorful picture of Qingdao. 

6.I have to admit that, I like this city, and I have to try my best for obtaining a key to Ocean University of China.

7.That’s all, thank you.

